Not sure how these critique things are supposed to work, so I'll do my best here and hope it ends up being useful.
You are focusing a lot on the syntax of your DSLs, and I agree that it is very important to specify them clearly, especially if you want a significantly better way to construct decks than listing every card individually. I recommend first having them specify the possible traits in a Deck object of some kind, which will then let your code easily store traits for individual cards and respond to queries.

On that note, I personally feel like the internal representation is, in a lot of ways, the actual substance to your project here. What you really want is something that is aware of traits at a reasonably abstract level, and can understand and respond to queries about them. I would probably recommend that you actually build the internal representation first (or at least have a very good idea what the class architecture looks like) before you write your syntaxes. I suspect that knowing how you want to represent decks and cards and traits will go a long way toward informing how you want users to be able to specify these things.

Other than that, I think your plan looks pretty good. I definitely agree with putting the deck-building first, and leaving the arithmetic for the end. I'm not quite as confident as you that the evaluation of probability queries will be trivial - in my experience, they get pretty complicated quickly. It looks like [SciPy] (http://www.scipy.org/) does a lot of what you want, with packages for plotting data and doing scientific computing and even symbolic calculations. You mentioned that you were looking at Python anyway, and I think the strong List and Dictionary backbone of Python and its pretty reasonable object representation make it a pretty good candidate.
